Status: http://stillmaintained.com/phoet/active_service.png http://travis-ci.org/phoet/active_service.png

ActiveService is a Rails extension that aims at 
creating reusable, transactional services in 
your application to make your code more DRY.

== Installation

With bundler:

  # Gemfile
  gem 'active_service'
  
  $ bundle install

or directly

  $ (sudo) gem install active_service

== Usage

Start by generating a service:

  $ rails generate active_service:service payment

This will generate an empty stub for you in _app/services_:

  # app/services/payment_service.rb
  class PaymentService < ActiveService::Base
    def do_something_important
      # your important code that should not fuck up comes here
    end
  end

If you want to use this service in your controller, just add a makro for it:

  # app/controllers/
  class PaymentController < ApplicationController
    service :payment
    
    def crazy_payment_action
      if services(:payment).do_something_important
        flash.info 'epic win!'
      else
        redirect_to :back, :error => 'epic fail!'
      end
    end
  end

This makro is also available in the services themselves, so that you can nest them.

== Good to know

You can always disable the transactional behavior, which might be useful when nesting services,
by using the bang-style method name:

  service.do_something_important!

ActiveService will wrap all the methods that you define in your service.
If you want to execute them directly you can do this by prefixing them:

  service.__do_something_important

Nested Transactions are NOT supported!

== Configuration

  $ rails generate active_service:config

After running the Rails generator you have a new folder _app/services_
where you can place your services. This folder is added to the rails load-path automagically.

If you do not like this folder have a look at the default configuration which has been
generated into an initializer at _config/active_service.yml_:

  path: "lib/services"

== More on Transactions

Have a look into the API-Docs[http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Transactions/ClassMethods.html]
for more information about Transactions.

